.. index:: introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery
   data mining and knowledge discovery
   data mining

COMP 355: Introduction to Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery
=============================================================

Credit Hours
-----------------------

3

Prerequisites
------------------------------

:doc:`comp271` and :doc:`comp353`

Description
--------------------

Very large collections of data - millions or even hundreds of millions
of individual records are now being compiled into centralized data
warehouses and reorganized globally by topic, allowing analysts to make
use of powerful statistical and machine learning methods to examine data
more comprehensively. Data mining is the art and science of using more
powerful algorithms, than traditional query tools such as SQL, to
extract more useful information. KDD - Knowledge Discovery in Databases
is the term given to the complete process of data preparation,
information extraction and analysis. This course introduces the key
terminology for KDD used in industry. It covers each step of the KDD
process with the emphasis on data mining extraction methods of
regression, classification, dependency modeling, and clustering. The
preprocessing step will focus on the use of a data warehouse and various
data cleaning techniques. The analysis phase will focus on statistical
methods as well as visualization tools. The CD-ROM that comes with the
text provides a look at various industry tools. Students will also
implement parts of data mining algorithms in C++. We will look at these
techniques using both the theoretical as well as practical approach.
Students will be given a number of handouts throughout the course as a
supplement to the text. There will be extensive reading required in this
course.

Class meets with INFS 494.


Syllabi
----------------------

No recent syllabi available.
